# VLCKeywords
Analysis of Victorian Literature and Culture's "Keywords" Issue

According to Victorian Literature and Culture (VLC) editors Rachel Ablow and Danny Hack, the Keywords issue of VLC was designed to "capture the wide range of interests and issues currently animating the field of Victorian studies" (Ablow and Hack, "Keywords," VLC 2018, p. 547). On tool for visualizing the current state of the field is, therefore, the Table of Contents of that issue. For instance, the editors note that the Table of Contents makes visible "the explosion of interest in the environment" (548).

This project was created in order to further complicate what the current field of Victorian Literature and Culture looks like. What would happen, I wondered, if rather than trusting that these key words are indeed central, we looked instead at which keywords appear across documents as writer's ostensibly wrote on rather narrow topics. For instance, if one found that the environment and associated terms such as "ecology" appeared even outside the essays written on the keyword "Environment," it would further support the editors assertion that this area of study is increasingly important.

Of course, just as the editors of VLC did not claim to "capture the precise contours of the field of Victorian literary and cultural studies" (547), any visualizations produced from their curated essays will similarly be biased in favor of the keyterms the editors and contributors asserted to be central to the field. There is no guaratnee that any key terms across these essays are any more central to the wide field of Victorian scholarship than the keywords initially suggested. However, visualization fo the keywords in the essays may help to verify or challenge the assertion of these terms' importance to the field.

The scripts used are based on the "Recreational Reckoning" methodology I have developed, which makes use of a number of different text mining tools. To see examples of possible applications of these tools, see repositories labelled "RR" in the github repositories of AnoffCobblah (https://github.com/AnoffCobblah).